# house-price-prediction
House price is a popular topic whatever for house buyers or real estate organizations. There are many factors that will affect house prices, such as the house build year, house quality, house size, house location, etc. Sometimes, it is hard to judge which factors will play more significant roles. Additionally, house sale prices in various areas will be more or less affected by different aspects. In this project, we aim to predict house sales price and to generate valuable business insights for housing market in Ames, Iowa by applying different models, including Random Forest Regression, Ridge regression, Lasso Regression, and Extreme Gradient Boosting.

The data for this project is from Kaggle competition: https://www.kaggle.com/c/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques. It is about house prices and related house attributes in Ames, Iowa.
There are a training dataset including 1460 observations and a test dataset including 1459 observations. Training dataset has 80 housing variables including sales price, and test dataset has 79 housing variables excluding sales price. Among the 80 attributes, 43 are discrete variables and 37 are continuous variables. These variables focus on different house physical attributes that a typical house buyer will be interested. Among the continuous variables, many are related to areas in or around a house, including lot area, ground living area, pool area, linear feet of street connected to property, etc. Among the discrete variables, many introduce house quality or condition, such as type of road access to property, neighborhood, overall quality, exterior covering on house, etc. Totally, there are 15424 missing values in the datasets. 
